This is version 0.1.1 of the EIRC FAQ.  It applies to EIRC version 1.0.2.
At the moment it contains the questions Paul L. Allen asked himself when
he tried to get EIRC working and the answers he eventually dug out.

1) What is EIRC?

Eteria IRC is a java applet which functions as an IRC client.  If the
web page it is embedded in is on the same server as the IRC server
then it runs out of the box.  If the web page is on a different server
you'll need to rebuild it.

2) Why do I need to rebuild it if the web page is on a different server
to the IRC daemon?

Because the jars aren't signed.

3) Why aren't the jars signed?

Because the out-of-the-box configuration is not particularly well-suited
to many people's needs.  In particular, it is built with debugging
turned on (wasteful of bandwidth) and may need tweaks to various class
files to suit the particular IRC network you wish to connect to.

4) Why isn't the out-of-the-box configuration better suited to what
people want to do?

Because making EIRC more flexible so that most people can use it without
having to recompile it will take time and effort.  Give it time.

5) Where do I get EIRC?

From http://eirc.sourceforge.net/.  If you want to build EIRC from source
you'll need the EIRC-lib package too.

6) How do I build EIRC?

You'll need the EIRC and EIRC-lib packages.  Move the lib directory
from EIRC-lib into your EIRC directory.  Then execute build.sh (if
you're on Unix) or build.bat (if you're on Windows).

7) What does it mean when it says BUILD FAILED Cannot use classic
compiler as it is unavailable?

It means you should do something about the warning you got just before
the error message and set the environment variable JAVA_HOME to point
to your java installation directory.

8) How do I build EIRC with debugging disabled so it's smaller and
therefore a faster download?

Edit the file build.xml.  Search for the word "debug".  Change:

  debug="on"
  
to:

  debug="off"

Ideally you'd be able to pass a parameter to build.bat/build.sh to
turn debugging on or off and it would default to being off because
that's the most sensible option.  The distributed binary ought to have
debugging turned off because many are not in a position to rebuild it
and debugging wastes valuable bandwidth; most who do rebuild it do so
only because they've changed a few options in the classes; only
maintainers need debugging and that (with luck) only infrequently.

9) How do I sign EIRC?

It depends whether you're on Unix or Windows and what version JDK you
have.

10) How do I sign EIRC on Unix with JDK 1.1?

Use javakey to create a certificate and sign the jars.  Detailed
instructions and examples are available on <URL: http://java.sun.com>.

11) How do I sign EIRC on Unix and Mac OS X with Java 2?

Use keytool to create a certificate and jarsigner to sign the jars.

The following commands will get you selfsigned archives:
$ keytool -selfcert -alias myalias
$ jarsigner EIRC.jar myalias
$ jarsigner EIRC-gfx.jar myalias

[ Thanks to Seva Epsteyn for the example. ]

Detailed instructions and examples are available on <URL:
http://java.sun.com>.

12) How do I sign EIRC on Windows?

Dunno.  Fortunately, I don't run Windoze.

13) I've signed it but I still can't get it to connect to IRC server Y
from web server X.  What's the problem?

I wish I knew.

14) I signed it.  I put it on webserver X and told it to use IRC
server Y.  It sits there for 5 minutes then complains that it can't
find the server.  What's wrong?

It's asking a nameserver for the IP address and the nameserver isn't
finding it.  This appears to be a bug in the code.  Maybe it's related
to the signing issue.  Giving the server's IP address means it
reports the next problem almost immediately and you can have a
non-working EIRC in seconds rather than waiting 5 minutes.

15) What does it mean when the build fails with "Blank final variable
'fixedColors'?

It means there's a problem with the source code that your javac isn't
happy with.

16) How do I give EIRC a list of servers to connect to?

At this moment, you can't.  Maybe in the next release...

17) How do I get EIRC to understand that Dalnet's nickserv is called
nickserv@services.dal.net?

You have to edit src/etc/properties/configuration.properties and look
for the line starting "service_bots=" then change those as appropriate.

Ideally, you should be able to pass these as applet parameters to
avoid having to recompile for Dalnet.  Even more ideally, there would
be separate properties files for the main IRC networks and EIRC would
recognize if you had connected to a known network and act accordingly -
this would save people having to recompile when dealing with different
IRC networks.  Maybe in the next release...
